The next change we're gonna make is wiring
up our UI so that it consumes real data.
And this is where we're gonna
get into the React app, right?
This is where we're gonna
start making those queries and
getting data flowing into that React app.
So, the first thing we need
to do is we'll be opening our
client sub project is we will
need to import ApolloClient.
So we've got the ApolloClient itself.
You can think of this as the vanilla
JavaScript thing that makes the GraphQL
queries.
We've got ApolloProvider,
which is a component that
uses the React context API to
make it possible throughout
the app to fire off queries.
And then we have this thing
called InMemoryCache, and
this theoretically helps us store data and
access it maybe from multiple components
where we need the exact same query.
We don't have to worry too much about
n of the exact same request going out
within a very short period of time.
So those are the imports we need.
We're gonna create our ApolloClient,
passing a cache into it,
so you can do this right
below the imports.
And then we're gonna
create our ApolloProvider,
Which is gonna wrap the app component.
So we're doing this in index.tsx.
You could do this in your app.tsx as well,
you want this to cover everything
else that's within your app or
at least wherever you're fetching data.
So we can go down here to where our
app component is, right down here, and
I'm gonna put it within this
error boundary component.
Can someone tell me what an error boundary
is in React, if you've used this before?
It's like a catch, think of it that way.
So if there's a problem that occurs,
rendering something,
this will intercept it.
And its job is to put something on the
screen so that we don't have to watch our
console quite so much,
we can just watch the rendered DOM.
All right, so there's a ApolloProvider,
co-pilot helping me out like a pro.
And now what this means is I can use
Apollo's hook API to make queries,
and that's both the equivalent of
a get request and a post request.
So we would say queries are for fetching
data and then there's something we'll
talk about later called a mutation, and
that's changing or destroying data.
So that's all we should
have to do in this file.
To recap, we imported the Apollo stuff,
we instantiated a client with an in
memory cache, here's our URL.
It's the same one, by the way,
that we're hitting for our dev tools.
And then down here, we're wrapping
our app in the ApolloProvider.
That's it.
So now it's time for
us to create our first operation.
And this word operation
is often used to describe
queries that are defined in
your code base where you're
either fetching data or
you're mutating data, but
these are things that your
API consumer is performing.
There's some data in app.tsx.
In fact, quite a lot of data, so
you can see we have our CURRENT_USER,
we have an array of TRENDS.
We have an array of SUGGESTIONS.
So these two things are both in
the right sidebar over here.
Here's our TRENDS up here.
These are our suggestions.
Our CURRENT_USER is driving this
header area over here as well as
the sidebar, right?
That's like the user's name and
their handle.
So all of that is sort
of loaded with the app.
It's like the initial load
at the topmost level,
cuz there's no routing here, so to speak.
We wanna replace these arrays
with real queries, and
we're gonna first start by asking for
the CURRENT_USER and the SUGGESTIONS.
So before we can make a query,
we need to import this GQL utility,
which is the same thing that we used for
our type definitions in our
first setup for Apollo server.
It's that tagged template literal
where we can define that special
string that defines a query in this case,
it was the schema before but
we could use it for a query now.
And then this is part of code
that will be generated for us,
it's a type that defines
what we need to pass in and
what we can expect back
from a particular query.
So we can expect this here to
error until we generate some code,
it's normal for it to error.
But let's add these to the top of app.tsx.
And let me make sure, yep, I was just
double checking, I don't have a folder
here called generated yet,
I want it to fail as it will fail for you.
All right, next, it's time for
us to make our query.
So I like to make these all caps,
snake case constants,
and we're gonna wrap it in this
GQL tagged template literal.
And you can see here it kinda looks
a little bit like interfaces,
almost like JSON without the punctuation.
You can think of these as, I mean,
it's the same stuff that we're
passing in here in our tool, right?
So this is a top level query, and
then the fields we want to retrieve,
and another top level query and
the fields we want to retrieve.
What you name it here is not gonna be of
great consequence the way we're using
things today, but there are things
you can do to refer to this later on.
So let's grab this, add it to our app.tsx,
we're gonna put it right down
here below of the fixture data.
So now that this has been added,
we can run our codegen utility.
It's the same command,
just run it in the client folder.
So it's yarn codegen.
And you should see some checkmarks,
everything's successful,
and you should see a new folder has
appeared called Generated > graphql.tsx.
This is a good time for me to talk about,
how is all of this happening?
So there's a library called,
I think it's graphql-codegen, there it is.
So this is a project that's doing
this generating, and there are config
files like this that effectively define
where GraphQL stuff can be found and
it's capable of parsing these
strings from TypeScript.
And then what do you want generated,
so this is what's giving where I'm
defining the name of the file,
and then these are plugins.
So this is gonna define,
what is the output?
What exactly is operating on
the parsed GraphQL stuff?
And then that's the exact same way
it's working on the server except you
can see I have resolvers, right?
I have operations generated
on the client side,
I have resolvers generated
on the server side.
Imagine if you had a mid tier API
that had both operations that it was
sending to some other back end and
resolvers it was using to serve data
to someone else that's upstream or
downstream, you might have both
operations and resolvers in here.
So that's it.
And, I just wanna show you the list
of languages that are supported.
A lot of TypeScript, React,
you can have it wired up for Vue, or
Angular, C#, Java,
you can use it to generate flow types.
So this is a great compatibility layer,
if you're migrating
from flow to TypeScript or
back, so it's quite flexible.
So now that that's
generated on our front end,
this import that we had up here,
it is no longer causing a problem,
in fact, it's got a really
complicated type coming back.
That's a complicated type we
didn't have to write, but
let's look at exactly
what's happening here.
So it looks like this is a function.
So it's not strictly a type.
This is actually a function
that's returning something, and
it's saying Apollo.useQuery, and
it's passing in a query of some kind.
And it's got GetCurrentUserQueryVariables.
So here's the query, here
are the variables passed to this query.
These might be thought of
as the the query params or
the path params that you'd put in a URL
for a REST API call of some sort.
And then we have a return type,
which is, sorry,
it's actually gonna be inferred based
on what Apollo.useQuery returns.
So this is the codegen
looking at the schema,
understanding what does this query need,
what do we expect to get back?
Let's put it into action.
So inside the component,
we're gonna invoke this hook,
useGetCurrentUserQuery.
And you may wonder, if you've used React
hooks before, use state, use effect,
things like that.
Often you'll pass something into this, but
this is something that's
already pre-baked for us.
It's part of the generated code,
it has that query baked in,
it has the right type associated with it,
it's all ready to go.
What we get back are three things,
we get loading, error, and data.
So these let us conditionally
render something if this
request is in progress,
if something went wrong.
And if this is a nullable type,
there's always a possibility
that no data will be returned.
So for now,
we're just gonna emit cursory things.
We're gonna return cursory things from the
component if we run into those situations.
And that will let us get to this
point where we'll use the structured
assignment to pick out data
like the currentUser and
the array of suggestions,
we'll grab that from the response payload.
So I'm gonna grab this and post it
into my component before the return.
So that will go down here, right here.
And now we have to use this data
somewhere, but if we look at this,
we can see, hey, look at those
nice little types coming through.
Nowhere have I said that there's this
avatar URL or anything like that.
But it's all coming through,
this is all based on our GraphQL schema.
So I'm going to start to pass
this data into our components.
So here's the first one,
just replacing this red line
with the green line below it,
that is right here.
Now the reason I'm doing this is,
we haven't handled
everything that's on our fixture data for
the CURRENT_USER,
in particular there's this favorites
thing, and we don't have that yet.
So I'm gonna need to do
basically an object to sign,
kinda merge these things together.
I'm gonna keep fixture data in there but
I'll override it with real data for
now, we'll get a mix, so we can save that.
And then the other place we can
use this is suggestions, and
this we should be able
to replace outright.
So right bar, actually here.
Suggestions, there we go.
And I think this means,
can we delete SUGGESTIONS?
We can, it's not used anymore,
fixture data gone.
Now we'll know this works, if you recall
we had one suggestion of who to follow
before, we should see more than one.
And we do, here's jQuery's
Twitter account showing up.
So now for the first time we
have real data coming in and
we're seeing real suggestions.
Other data is being used as well,
you see John Doe up here.
It used to say student, but
now this is from the fixture
data on our back end.
So this is now coming
through our GraphQL API.
And we can see in our
Network tab if we like,
see this in action just to round it out.
Here it is.
There's that GraphQL request and response.
Sorry, it is a post request, of course.
So here's the request payload, and
you can see, we have an operation name,
we have the stringified query.
This looks a lot like, I'm gonna highlight
the one below it, cuz it's easier to see.
This here looks like,
This query GetCurrentUser, currentUser.
query GetCurrentUser, so there it is,
it's just literally that string.
And here's the response we get back, data,
there's currentUser, there's suggestions.
So this is how things
are working behind the scenes.
We don't need to worry about much of this
because it's all happening between Apollo
client and Apollo server.
So great, now we're at a point where
our UI is consuming real data.